# Exporting Results

To export search results, open the menu "More" between the Search and
History buttons and select "Export":

![](/images/export.png)

Enter the query whose results you want to export as usual in the AQL
box. Note that you **do not need to carry out the query first**. You can
enter the query and export without pressing Search before. Several
exporter modules can be selected from the Export tab shown below.

![](/images/export2.png)

The SimpleTextExporter simply gives the text for all tokens in each
search result, including context, in a one-row-per-hit format. The
tokens covered by the match area are marked with square brackets and the
results are numbered, as in the following
example:

``` 
    0. of the International Brotherhood of [Magicians] Wednesday , October 9 , 
    1. Magic Month in the United [States] . Wikinews spoke with William 
    2. of the International Brotherhood of [Magicians] , about the current state 
    3. - " Scarne on Card [Tricks] " and " Scarne on 
    4. and " Scarne on Magic [Tricks] " . That started me 
```

The TextExporter adds all annotations of each token separated by slashes
(e.g. dogs/NNS/dog for a token dogs annotated with a part-of-speech NNS
and a lemma dog).

The GridExporter adds all annotations available for the span of
retrieved tokens, with each annotation layer in a separate line.
Annotations are separated by spaces and the hierarchical order of
annotations is lost, though the span of tokens covered by each
annotation may optionally be given in square brackets (to turn this off
use the optional parameter `numbers=false` in the ‘Parameters’ box). The
user can specify annotation layers to be exported in the additional
‘Annotation Keys’ box, and annotation names should be separated by
comas, as in the image above. Metadata annotations can also be exported
by entering “metakeys=” and a list of comma separated metadata names in
the Parameters box. If nothing is specified, all available annotations
and no metadata will be exported. Multiple options are separated by a
semicolon, e.g. the Parameters `metakeys=type,docname;numbers=false`. An
example output with token numbers and the part of speech (pos) and
syntactic category annotations looks as follows.

    0.   tok  of the International Brotherhood of Magicians Wednesday 
        pos  IN[1-1] DT[2-2] NP[3-3] NP[4-4] IN[5-5] NPS[6-6] NP[7-7] 
        cat  S[1-6] VP[1-6] NP[1-6] PP[1-6] NP[2-4] PP[5-6] NP[6-6] NP[7-12] 

Meaning that the annotation cat="NP" applies to tokens 1-6 in the search
result, and so on. Note that when specifying annotation layers, if the
reserved name 'tok' is not specified, the tokens themselves will not be
exported (annotations only).

The WekaExporter outputs the format used by the [WEKA machine learning
tool](http://www.cs.waikato.ac.nz/ml/weka/). Only the attributes of the
search elements (\#1, \#2 etc. in AQL) are outputted, and are separated
by commas. The order and name of the attributes is declared in the
beginning of the export text, as in this example:

    @relation name
    
    @attribute #1_id string
    @attribute #1_span string
    @attribute #1_anno_const:cat string
    @attribute #2_id string
    @attribute #2_span string
    @attribute #2_anno_GUM:claws5 string
    @attribute #2_anno_GUM:lemma string
    @attribute #2_anno_GUM:pos string
    
    @data
    
    '11318611','the current state','NP','11318616','current','AJ0','current','JJ'
    '11318686','magic','NP','11318688','magic','AJ0','magic','JJ'
    '11318757','some basic tricks','NP','11318760','basic','AJ0','basic','JJ'

The export shows the properties of an NP node dominating a token with
the part-of-speech JJ. Since the token also has other attributes, such
as the lemma and part of speech tags, these are also retrieved.

It is also possible to output metadata annotations per hit using the
WekaExporter. To do so, use the parameter metakeys=meta1,meta2 etc. For
example, if your documents have a metadata annotation called 'genre',
you may export it for each search result as a further column using
metakeys=genre in the parameters box.

The CSVExporter behaves much like the WekaExporter, except that the Weka
header specifying the content of the columns is not used (useful for
importing into spreadsheet programs such as Excel or Calc).

Note that exporting may be slow if the result set is large.